1) What is Maven in SpringBoot
A) Maven is a powerful project management tool that is based on POM (project object model), used for project build, dependency, and documentation. It is a tool that can be used for building and managing any Java-based project.

2) What are the Maven life cycles?
A) There are three built-in build lifecycles: default, clean and site. The default lifecycle handles your project deployment, the clean lifecycle handles project cleaning, while the site lifecycle handles the creation of your project's web site.

3) Why Maven clean is used?
A) The Maven Clean Plugin, as the name implies, attempts to clean the files and directories generated by Maven during its build. While there are plugins that generate additional files, the Clean Plugin assumes that these files are generated inside the target directory.

4) Maven Build Phases
A) Maven build lifecycle goes through a set of stages, they are called build phases. For example, the default lifecycle is made up of the following phases.

validate
compile
test
package
verify
install
deploy

The build phases are executed sequentially. When we run a maven build command, we specify the phase to be executed. Any maven build phases that come before the specified phase is also executed. For example, if we run mvn package then it will execute validate, compile, test, and package phases of the project.

5) what is maven-surefire-plugin
A) The Surefire Plugin is used during the test phase of the build lifecycle to execute the unit tests of an application. It generates reports in two different file formats:
a) Plain text files (*.txt)
b) XML files (*.xml)

6) What is maven-war-plugin
A) The Maven WAR plugin is responsible for collecting and compiling all the dependencies, classes, and resources of the web application into a web application archive.

7) What is maven-jar-plugin
A) Maven Jar plugin is responsible for configuring where the project's main class is, so it can add it to the Jar's manifest file. If you do not include this plugin when you try to run the jar file this error will appear : Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError.
